This episode is brought to
you by Datadog a full
stack monitoring platform that integrates
with over 400 technologies like
gremlin, PagerDuty, AWS Lambda, Spinnaker,
and more with rich visualizations
and algorithmic alerts. Datadog could
help you monitor the effects
of chaos, experiments, identify weaknesses,
and improve the reliability of
your systems. Visit Datadog hq.com/hansel
minutes. To get a free
14 day trial and receive
one of data dog's famously
cozy. T-shirts Alright, This is
Scott Hanselman. This Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Helen,
the open source director
of initiatives at 10 up
and the lead developer for
WordPress. How are you? I
am great. How are you
doing Well? I'm getting there.
I'm not, not exactly living
the dream. Of course, we're
recording this during the time
of coronavirus. So I am
sequestered in my home in
Portland, Oregon. Where are you?
I am sequestered in my
home fully down in San
Jose, Costa Rica, Costa Rica. That's where
I think we all want
to be right now. That
sounds amazing. Have you been
there a long time? I
have been here. It's been
almost two years. My husband
is actually Costa Rican and
we have two kids. So
I kind of overwhelming to
live in the New York Metro,
I guess it's always kind
of overwhelming to live in
the New York Metro, but we
a couple of years ago
just kind of gave up
on it and moved here
to be with family. That
sounds amazing. I understand the
certainly with the, the tightness,
the tight knit aspect of
things in New York, being in
the New York, subway is not
a place to be right
now. Yeah, no, I am
definitely glad to have space
here and the kids are
not going too wild, I
guess. Cause they're not too
cooped up. You know, How
was your Spanish? I was
talking to someone earlier today
and they had amazing English
and after they talked to
me in English, they were
like, Oh, I'm so sorry
for my poor English. And
I'm like, Oh, I can't
sorry for not speaking another
language at all. Yeah, I
speak Spanish. Okay. I think
there's this like perfectionist streak
at me. So I get
really nervous about making mistakes.
And so I kind of
hate doing it. I am,
I'm the same way about
languages in general. And you
know, they always use that
term, idiomatic, whatever. Like, you
know, I can speak Chipotle
they Spanish, but if I
speak idiomatic Spanish, you know,
it doesn't sound right. And
then of course I always
get in trouble cause I
was in the Dominican Republic and
their Spanish is different than
Mexican Spanish, which is the
Spanish that I've learned, which
is different than, you know,
whatever. So then you, you,
you, you say some term
and they're like, Oh my
goodness. We don't say that
here. That's a swear word.
It was like, is it
really a show? Oh yeah,
yeah, yeah. Lots of jokes
about lots of jokes about
straws, I think is I
got in huge trouble with
a straw. We'll talk about
that another time. And we,
don't not on this show,
but yeah, I got an,
a horrible, horrible straw based
Spanish situation. So someone, if
you see me on the
street, friends and listeners of
the podcast, feel free to
ask me about that nightmare
situation. Cause that was bad.
Yeah. And speaking of languages
and idiomatic languages. So I,
I speak C-sharp and you
are one of the lead
developers on WordPress. WordPress is,
is that still primarily or
100% written in PHP on
the service side. It is
primarily, there's a fair amount
of JavaScript now that runs
the new editor and some
other experiences. So that kind
of bridges somewhere between PHP
and JavaScript on the server
side of things. Yeah. Now
PHP, one time I was
a, you know, we always
tease different languages. You always
tease the language that you
don't speak. And then you
talk privately, you know, internally
with your group about how
your language sucks. Like all
of us internally, we talk
about how C sharp sucks,
but I was teasing once
PHP, I think it was
in a talk and someone
said I was language shaming,
but then I went and
looked at the numbers and
PHP is killing it. Like
you can tease PHP all
they want, but it's like
60 million people using the thing.
Yeah. It's, it's, it's honestly
like a big part of
what got me kind of
back into computers after a
long, long time away from
them. Cause it's like instant,
right? Like you just kinda
make this thing go and
it's forgiving in both good
and bad ways. I think
that's what people really like
to make fun of. Right?
Like you can do these
things and in any other
language, it would be like,
that's a dumb thing to
do, but PHP is like,
ah, sure. I'll guess I'll
take a guess as to
what you mean, but that
was kind of the fun
thing about getting into PHP
was that it was forgiving
and it, let me try
a lot of different things
and yeah. And we like
to have our fights in
public. I think that's another
thing about it. It itself
being developed as open source,
right. Is that all the
fights and everything happened in
the open. So it gets
a lot of attention for
that. Why do you think
PHP gets a bad name?
Why do Pete? Why is
it, is it because it's
so popular that people think
they can throw rocks at
it? I think they're a
bunch of different things. I
mean, there is the, you
know, at least in, in
order versions of PHP, how
lax it was about a
lot of things, just, you
know, like typing or yeah,
mostly typing honestly, and not
having like best practices around
how you structure things that
you're writing. Right. Like it
used to be a lot
of procedural code and a
lot of, you know, I
don't know what to call
it, but just a lot
of sort of elitism around,
Oh, you're not using objects.
Not everything can just be
functional the time. Yeah. I
think with, with the type
of usage, I think WordPress
is like this too, right?
Like with that type of,
you have a lot of
eyes on both of the
things that are good and
the things that are bad.
Right. So they just kind
of get a lot more
attention generally. And we like
to pick on things that
are bad, But that, that
lose that looseness, that, that
dynamism, if that's a word
is why it was so
successful. I mean, it's a
fairly young language. It's only
been around for 25 years.
And I think the thing
that's most interesting about PHP
is that it kind of
grew and developed with no
formal specification until like five
years ago or six years
ago. So the first 20
years they were just kinda
making stuff up. Yeah. I
mean, you could see it,
you know, we have, they're
like, there's like a function
to find the date of
Easter in alternate calendars. Like
it's just kind of, there
was a funny language, but
you know, we, it, again,
it works right. Like it
works, we get stuff done.
So Exactly. And that's the
thing. There's no room for
a and when you're getting
work done. Yep. One of
the things that we say
at Microsoft where I work
and my day job is
we, we refer to a
thing about the developers inner
loop, the experience that the
developer goes through to make
a change and then see
the change and how long
it takes. Now, my language
is strongly typed and compiled.
So you could spend a
couple seconds or even many
seconds where you make a
change, compile it, run a
test, hit refresh. The power
of PHP for me has
always been the, make a
change and hit refresh in
the browser. So the amount
of time spent let's just
like hit save, and then
you see immediately what you
just did. And I think
that that's always been the
success for me. Yes, absolutely.
That's that's definitely what drew
me in as well. Like
I mentioned, it just, it
was exciting to get into
something. I was very briefly
a computer science major, double
major. And it was in
Java at the time, I
think was the, the, the
primary language used for classes.
And before that had done
some C plus plus. So
for me, just coming from
compiled languages where everything was
very punitive almost, and, and
taking forever to, you know,
compile things and required certain
resources and all of that,
and to come from that
and having given up on
it, because it was so
frustrating and I did not
have resources available to me
the way that they sort
of expected you to have
to, to get to something
like PHP, where you can
just refresh and everything is
good, was really exciting. And
it kind of reignited my
excitement about computers sort of
generally. And so now I'm
here. I like that because
they're like right now, I
just taught when I went,
my nephew is in school
at Oregon state and he
Skyped me a couple of
days ago because he's like,
I want to be a
computer programmer any, and they're
making them do C plus
plus, and he's just, he's
hating it. And it's, it's
taking his excitement, which was
from age 13 to age
19. And it's just pounding
him into the ground because
he's there like, you know,
write a connect four game
or do a tic TAC
toe and make sure you
use pointers to pointers, to
pointers, to do a raise
of multidimensional, whatever. And he's
just like, but this isn't
like this, isn't what I
signed up for. And it's
like, when my dad told
me, Hey, we're going to
learn, teach you how to
drive. And I'm like, Oh
great. Can I drive this
car? And he's like, no,
no, we're going to learn
to drive, stick shift first.
We're going to make you
suffer. Right. It's like, Hey,
let's all learn computers now.
Assembly language. Yeah. That's so
fun. So you, you got,
you got the fun beaten
out of you and then
you found PHP. Yeah. Yeah.
That's totally what it was.
You know, we all started
with the like geo cities,
aim profiles, pretty generated each
team, a playlist from Winnie
app onto our all profiles.
Right. And we kind of
went from that and tinkering
with HTML. And again, the
fun of seeing something just
happened when you refreshed and
went from that into compiled
languages. And what you said
about like connect four, I
was like, Oh my God,
I'm back in AP, computer
science all over again, being
shoved into that was very
like, this is not exciting
for me. And this is
not something that I relate
to. Right. Like my, when
I thought about, if I
wanted to do computers for
a living, what would I
want to do? And for
me, it was never like,
I want to write, you
know, operating systems. I don't
want to write games when
I'm familiar with is the
web. I'm familiar with stuff
on the internet. Right. That's
my, my generation, my childhood.
And for me, it was
very much like, okay, this
is not what I want
to do. I don't see
how it's relevant at all.
And I don't want to
do it anymore. So I
stopped doing it for a
long time. Cool. Who remember
like geo cities and, you
know, they've, they've gone and
made similar sites. You can
find Neo cities. But like,
if I talk to someone
who's in their twenties and
they say, Oh man, geo
cities and my space and,
you know, few source, it's
always so disappointing. Now, when
you go and do a
view source on a website
and it's completely unreadable and
you go, Oh, that's a
single div and some JavaScript
that's office gated. Do you
think that WordPress is kind
of the new geo cities
or is there a generation
that's WordPress? Is there they're
geo cities? That's the thing
that they're hacking on and
getting passionate about? I think
specifically in the developer and
the open source community. Yes.
There are a significant number
of people who came up
through a project like WordPress
and for a lot of
people that is exactly WordPress,
right? Like hacking on themes
or, you know, trying to
figure out what the bug
is and doing what we
always tell people not to
do like hacking core, like,
you know, altering core P
you know, WordPress files on
the server. So we do
have a lot of people
who've kind of come up
through that. And a lot
of it again, is thanks
to it being just like
PHP, HTML, and basic CSS
for a long time. We
had no preprocessor and a
lot of, a lot of
opposition to that was that
feeling of, you know, as
such a large project and
one that's so established in
the open source community, you
know, do you still have
the obligation to occupy this
sort of like entry level
space, right. Where we continue
as a project to, you
know, not over prioritize tooling
over the experience of not
just incoming contributors to WordPress,
but people who are learning
about open source and PHP
and CMS is, and whatever,
you know, all for the
first time. And so that's
something that we, I think
we struggle with a little
bit as a project is,
you know, how do we
move forward with something like
Gutenberg, which is the JavaScript
react based editor that we
have now, I guess it's
been a couple of years,
but so we have this,
we have this new editor
and it's JavaScript based. And
so it has, you know,
like a build process and,
you know, processors and typing.
And I don't even by
self necessarily know what's in
there as a lead developer,
cause it's a huge project
and it kind of runs
on its own leadership on
the side. And we merge
parts of it back into
the WordPress itself from time
to time. So, you know,
we, we struggle with that
is, you know, how do
you create a process that
still welcomes people to participate
no matter their skill level
and no matter their skill
set. Right. Cause it doesn't
necessarily have to be code.
We want people to be
able to participate in documentation
and you know, community events
and that sort of thing
as well. Right. So how
do we balance this desire
to move forward and to
be modern and all the
things that people like to
tease WordPress about, right? Like
for not, not being on
the cutting edge all the
time, but how do we
balance that with continuing to
want to bring people into
contributing, to open source broadly,
it's not just about WordPress,
like it's about that stewardship
for anything that you use
and then awareness that what
you're using is being built
by volunteers. And we want
everybody to be able to
participate in that process and
be aware of The fact
that everything is built by
volunteers, but there's still, there's
still on the part of
the users such as sense
of entitlement must be very
frustrating. I mean, you must,
I'm sure you've been either
on the phone or on
the other side of a
great deal of anger from
someone who's personally upset with
you because you represent WordPress
to them and their business
is now down because they
edited a file that they
shouldn't have directly on the
production server, et cetera, et
cetera. Why do they think
that they deserve your pound
of flesh, even though you're
a volunteer It's I think
in the WordPress space, it's
a little more complicated than
it can be for some
other projects. So in the
WordPress space, some people are
sponsored to work on things.
Automatic itself sponsors a ton
of people to work on
just the core software product
itself. Right. So that that's
their contribution back to, you
know, the community that upholds
its business. And so my
position is the same. I
am sponsored to work on
WordPress and WordPress related things
for the most part. I
like I don't work on
client stuff. Right. So tenet
is an agency. We do
client services. I very rarely
touch anything on the client
front. So my time is
a contribution back to the
open source community in that
world. It's a little more
complicated. I think like it,
I can understand somebody feeling
like I'm personally responsible for
something, right. I would prefer
that they not, you know,
like be rude to me
or call me names, all
of which have happened. But
that part, I do understand
a little bit better. And
I don't, I don't expect
people out there who are
just running websites to necessarily
understand that, you know, this
thing exists as a publicly
created public. Good. I think
that's in human terms and
especially in, you know, like
the modern world that can
be sort of like just
hard to wrap your head
around at all, right. It's
hard, these free products. I
mean, Mike, to my parents,
to my nontechnical parents, Facebook
is a product that they
feel that they've purchased, but
they didn't put in a
credit card. They just use
it. Therefore it must be
a thing. Therefore someone must
support them, Right. Somebody somewhere
is making money. Therefore somebody
is getting paid to help
me is sort of the
simplified thought process. Right. So,
yeah. So I think WordPress
there, I think there are
fewer and fewer honestly significant
volunteers in the community, right?
So the volunteerism is funded
in a lot of ways
by other companies who have
built their businesses, you know,
building WordPress sites or WordPress
products. So in, in our
space, it's become a lot
of, you know, funded work.
So it's volunteerism in that
it's voluntary, but it's not
volunteerism as an it's devoid
of any sort of transactional
money component. Is that possible?
Only because of WordPress's dramatic
success. I mean, in like
I'm in the.net space, which
is certainly smaller than PHP
and there's a lot of
like super useful, like low
level stuff that people make.
And it may have been
one or two people working
on it and they're all
doing it entirely volunteerism, but
you can't compare a small
utility library and C-sharp, that
is used by 10,000 people
to something like WordPress, which
is used by hundreds of
millions of people. But how
do you get there? How
do you introduce someone into
open source and say, Hey,
this could also be a
career and you could potentially
get paid for working on
this and get sponsored as
well. I think in the
WordPress space, it's very much
that we continue to focus
on non developer experiences. Right?
And I, and again, I
think that that's also opened
us up to a lot
of criticism, you know, good
and bad over the years
in that we don't prioritize
developers. In some ways we
maybe make their lives worse
because we require certain things
around backwards compatibility. And we
ask that people create experiences
within a WordPress admin that
maybe doesn't provide everything experience-wise.
So you kind of have
to get imaginative about how
you integrate with it. So
that users are not left
feeling like they're using 17
different products within one administrative
interface. So like C panel,
right? Like every, every single
thing that you use in
C panel is like something
different entirely. Right? And we
don't want that in the
WordPress space. We want people
to feel like, you know,
when they click on something
in WordPress to edit some
settings or some content or
whatever it is that it's
going to be familiar, that
you're going to know what
to do, sort of intuitively
hopefully it'll kind of guide
you through it and that
you can save your changes
and not have it destroy
anything. Right. We want to
build this. We prioritize user
trust is what we talk
about. So the, the trust
of the user that they're
not going to lose content,
that they can try out
settings and preview them without
it being destructive or permanent.
These are all things that
are about building user trust.
But when we talk about
users, we're talking about non
non developer users. And so
in that space, we have
a much bigger audience, right.
Of people who can use
our products and use our
work. So you, there are
people who develop, you know,
like utilities in the WordPress
space, right? Like theme things
to like build themes on
top of various tooling. Like
at 10 up, we do
these things where we have
like a Docker image that
supports, you know, local WordPress
development. Or I think we
have, like, I don't know
a jobs system kind of
thing that uses WordPress. So
we have, you know, a
bunch of things that are
more technical developer oriented, but
for the most part, especially
what I work on in
the open source end of
things, these are things that
are geared toward nontechnical users.
Right? And I think that
that's, that's been a big
part of it is just
that we are, we're appealing
toward a much bigger group
and a group that, you
know, in many ways is
used to paying for software,
right. Or at least support
for their software. And so
that's the space that we
to operated is the consulting
space, right? Providing services, No
one wants to manage databases
if they can avoid it.
That's why Mongo DB made
Mongo DB Atlas, a global
cloud service that runs on
AWS, GCP and Azure. You
can deploy a fully managed
Mongo DB database in minutes
with just a few clicks
or a few API calls,
Mongo DB, Atlas, automates deployment,
automates updates, handles scaling, and
more so that you can
focus on your application instead
of taking care of your
database, you can get started
free@mongodb.com slash Atlas. Now, if
you're already managing a Mongo
DB deployment, Atlas has a
live migration service. So you
can migrate it easily with
minimal downtime and then get
back to what matters, stop
managing your database and start
using Mongo DB Atlas. So
these, these core tenants, these
kind of this, we believe,
you know, the 10 commandments
of WordPress and what you
all believe you, there's a
core leadership team, right. And
you've got the WordPress co
founder, Matt, and then there's
five is a correct five
lead developers. And then a
number of core developers. It's
kind of, there's kind of
a hierarchy there. Did that
naturally happen? How did you
become a lead developer? That's
a really good question. Sometimes
I'm not, I'm not 100%
sure. I, it's not a
very clear or clean hierarchy.
We have sort of these
labels and we sometimes function
in those roles. I think
that with, especially with Gutenberg
and the way that it's
changed, like the pace and
structure of development of WordPress
itself, it's somewhat less relevant.
What, what that named hierarchy
means. But yeah, I, I
started with wanting to understand
what opensource meant. Cause I
had no idea what it
meant. I worked at a
university as a web developer
and we were using WordPress
for some projects. And I
thought, you know, I see
something in the WordPress admin
that looks funny to me.
And I just wanna like
understand what, what does open
source mean? They keep telling
me, you can, if you
see something wrong, you can
do something about it. And
what does that even mean?
You know, what subversion, what,
what does CSS? I dunno.
And so I submitted a
patch. We use track, people
hate it. We use track
and subversion and patch files
still. So I, yeah, Sorry.
I didn't mean to say
it like that. It's fine.
You can use get hub.
We have some tools around
that, but yeah, for the
most part for years, it's
been version, track and patch
files. No, I, I did
that. I mean, I lived
that whole thing. That was
15 years ago. I still
love patch files, but whatever.
So I submitted a patch
file for some CSS to
fix like a border on
something and got some feedback
very quickly. That was like,
you also have to make
this other change and like
very quickly iterated on it.
And they merged it into
WordPress. And that was like
my first open source contribution,
I think about years ago.
And so I was like,
Whoa, that's, I mean, just
like the quickness of their
process. And I think that
even that, you know, the,
the team was prioritizing first
time contributors to kind of
give you that satisfaction and
let you decide whether or
not that was something you
wanted to keep participating in.
And so I was, I
was hooked on it and
was like, Oh wow, this
is super cool. I want
to, I want to keep
doing this and just kind
of stuck with it. Some
of it was front end
development, even though at the
time I wasn't a friend
developer at all. I was
like a PHP and my
SQL applications developer and just
kinda stuck with it. And
over the years, I guess,
gained, gained a lot of
trust and went to a
lot of community events. So
we have word camps, right?
Like local, local conferences about
various aspects of WordPress. And
so I would go to
those and eventually landed at
up as a first employee,
actually about eight and a
half years ago and landed
at 10 up and over
the years had, you know,
more and more community time,
what we call it given
to me. And in 2013,
after my first maternity leave,
when I came back to
Tennessee after maternity leave, I
basically just never rolled back
on the client projects and
went full time into open
source work. So I'm hearing
that I'm interested in something
I'm going to poke at
it. I want to understand
this and then showing up
consistently, like if you could,
is showing up is how
you succeed in open source.
You are, Hey, it's Helen
again. Oh, she is helpful.
Oh, look at this. And
then you just keep showing
up until they, they, they
move you up in the
process and they go, wow.
The people who showed up
are here and the people
who stopped showing up, we
don't talk to them anymore.
I mean, when everything is
online, right? Like we're, we're
using now we use Slack
in that time. It was
IRC, but you're, you're just
doing text, text based chat.
Right. And so my handle
has always been Helen because
they're not very many Helens,
I guess. So even on
Freenode I was just Helen.
I was, I was Scott
at AOL. Yep. There you
go. Early adopter. Now I'm
Helen on like GitHub and
a whole bunch of things.
So I'm just not very
many of us, I guess.
And so I always use
my real name. So I
think it was, I think
even easier for people to
recognize that I was continuing
to show up. And I
think another part of it
was also being willing to
say like, Oh, I was
definitely wrong about that. Right.
Rather than letting a mistake,
sit and fester and like
never acknowledge it, you know?
And especially in opensource because
like somebody else will probably
see it at some point
and experience it. And I
think there was also a
lot of value in just
being proactive and being like,
wait, wait, wait, that was
not great. Let's try something
else. Or, you know, I
would like to you, you
know, revert my patch and
try to attack, or here's
a patch that, you know,
is maybe a little too
forward facing right now, but
you know, five years from
now, it might become relevant.
So let me just throw
it up here basically for,
you know, to see if
it means anything later on.
So yeah, there's a lot
of value in showing up
and not necessarily like being
hyper productive, right. Like I
think there's too much focus
on how do you define
productivity and how do you
meet, you know, goals and
KPIs or whatever. Right. And
I think, I think that
that in open source at
least is not nearly as
important and it's much more
important to be consistent and
to be honest about what's
going on. And I think
people do notice that I
think that that's True. Like
I think that we, we,
and I'm, I don't know
who the Royal we is
in this context, but we
seem to mythologize the, you
know, the, the, the, the
mean super hyper productive 10
X developer, and it's all
a myth. I would much
rather have a very nice
pleasant. One X developer who
shows up consistently is easy
to work with and has
both good technical skills and
is also pleasant on conference
calls. You know what I
mean? Like, what is the
name for that developer? Let's
have, give me 10 of
those and we'll have a
nice little project Professionals I
think is what we used
to call Nationals. That is
a very, I love that
we should make more professionals.
So this Gutenberg I'm seeing,
there's really interesting articles around
like, you know, is word,
press survive, Gutenberg, you know,
it's pretty interesting stuff and
it's, it's a lovely editor.
And one of the things
that I've noticed about it
is that to your original
point, at the very beginning
of the podcast, focusing on
users, you know, when WordPress
for me was the blog
that allowed people to upload
eight megabyte JPEGs, and then
resize them, ruin the aspect
ratio and then keep them
there. So then I could
visit their website and you
know, like, Oh, look, I
took a look at my
website for my bagel shop.
That's like a 25 Meg
website and I hit F
12 and I go, Oh
my God, you uploaded an
eight Meg JPEG. But Gutenberg
in doing that, it allows
the customer to fall into
what we at Microsoft call
the pit of success. Like,
even if you messed up,
it's you still succeed. Like
your, your images are pretty
and they have all text
and they have title and
they'd got resized correctly and
you can't, you really have
to work to mess up
the aspect ratio. Why would
anyone have a problem with
that? That sounds great. Yeah.
I, you know, I think
there's, Oh, let's see. There,
there are a lot of
things tied up in that
one. One thing is that
separately from the editor itself,
there have been, there's been
a big push to meet
better web standards. I mean,
WordPress itself was about web
standards. I know that when
Matt talks about, you know,
the origins of WordPress, a
lot of it was about
wanting to have Symantec, HTML
and micro formats and ping
backs and trackbacks and RSS
feeds and all of that,
right. About being a part
of the open web and
being a part of, you
know, information sharing. And so
there is this continue to
push for, you know, web
standards. So one thing that
was implemented, I mean, years
ago, before it was even,
I think a formal, formal
spec was responsive images, right?
Where you upload stuff to
WordPress and it does its
best to chop it into
a bunch of different, you
know, sizes and compressions and,
and make those available so
that you're no longer defaulting
to 25 Meg images. Right.
And I think another fairly
recent change, actually, there were
two, two parts, one was
longer ago, which was that
somebody went through and did
a whole study about the
effects that changing the default
compression would have on JPEGs.
So they use like an
algorithm to detect like the
differences and what is your
threshold of tolerance as like
a human viewer and presented
all of that work. And
so we changed the default
compression and it, I mean,
it saved, I don't know,
the actual statistics are out
there somewhere, so I'm not
just gonna make up numbers,
but the amount of bandwidth
that we were saving, you
know, in such a large
percentage of the web and
with more and more people
uploading images directly from their
phones, right. Where we have
like up until recently, no
control over the size of
those, I think made a
big difference. And then you
get into things like, you
know, serving up responsive sizes
for different devices. And then
I think Gutenberg itself as
the editor, I think gives
you a better sense of
how exactly it's going to
look on the front end.
Right. So instead of figuring,
okay, I'll just put the
biggest size image, cause that's
going to be the best
possible look, no matter what
somebody is using, it gives
you a better shot at
understanding, you know, this, this
image size is going to
look great, you know, in
most situations. Yeah. It makes
responsive design like for the
humans, for normal people. Yeah.
I've been watching all of
the, like the web, like
you all, I'm always impressed
when you go to a
website and you scroll down
and then like they have
like the really low res
version of the image. And
then it kind of fades
in because now it's in
the viewport and you're looking
at it and then, you
know, I'll put up like
a really big animated gift,
but I don't want to
mess up someone on a
low data plan overseas. All
of that should be handled
magically for me by some
image thing in the background.
But unfortunately my images are
just big giant images that
sit on an FTP server
and it's nice. It's 2020,
that's horrible. I should do
better. I should get WordPress.
Well, we, you know, we
would love for you to
use WordPress. And if I,
if I can plug else,
one of the things that
I've been working on recently,
like within our own like
10 up open opensource projects
is a plugin a, we
call it classify. I'm not,
I'm not much for like,
Oh, let's remember names of
things, but it's a plugin
that connects with various, you
know, cloud services to sort
of automatically process and categorize
your content. So right now
we're using as so yay.
Shout out to Microsoft, we're
using that for image processing.
Right? So when you upload
an image, it automatically gets
back a caption as your
all tag and some taxonomy
data. Right? So like I
see, like it sees a
building or it sees a
sandwich or whatever. So now
you have all of that
data in WordPress for you
automatically. So not only for
you as like the administrator
or content creator on your
own site, you're now able
to like search for things
without you manually having to
tag everything. And then for
your readers, for the consumers
of your site, they're getting
all tags on images again,
without you having to necessarily
put effort into it immediately.
Right. So instead of all
of these images that have
like, you know, DSC 1980
as they're all tagged, because
we pick that up from
the file name. Now you're
actually getting a description of
like, you know, a person
smiling in sunglasses or whatever.
And so it's just a
better experience all around for
everybody, right? To be able
to provide descriptive text for
various technologies and users, and
then for you as a
content manager to actually be
able to like find your
content later. It's really nice
to have. So if you're
interested, what does that plugin
called again? Classify. So we
spell it like classify C
L a S S I
F a I classify classify
plugin.com. I'll make sure to
put a link to that
in the show notes. Thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. Of course. Thanks
for having me. We've been
talking with Helen host, Sandy.
She's a lead developer at
WordPress and the director of
open source initiatives for 10
up. We'll have links to
the show notes to Helen
on Twitter, as well as
tenup.com. Thanks so much. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again. Next time. .